---
layout: single
title: "2018-04-10 Board Meeting"
menu: "main"
date: 2018-04-10
excerpt: "Logistics for upcoming events and misc."
---

## Attendees

Justin, Matthew, Hao, Simona

## Agenda
1. Upcoming workshop at FLREC (budget, participants, transportation)
2. Award funding (final comments on charter, committee to review applications)
3. CarpentryCon abstract (materials to include, dates)
4. Bug BBQ (snacks, git lesson, advertisements)
5. Advertising through Marston Library social media
6. Loose ends (instructor Q&A, peer assessment, website, spreadsheet lesson for Department of Anthropology, project on impact of extra-curricular activities, signage for workshops)

## Notes
### FLREC workshop
We will post a special award announcement to fund travel for one instructor. The award is for $450 meant to cover transportation, lodging, and meals. Application will be open starting tomorrow (April 11th) and the recipient will be selected by next week. 

### Award funding
Everybody approves the current version of the charter. Hao and Matt are on the reviewing panel for the next round of applications. The ad for the first regular cycle of awards will be posted in early May for one $250 award.

### CarpentryCon
Theme choice will depend on who will be selected to go. Abstract draft in progress on ticket #20.

### Bug BBQ
Logistics are all figured out. Room is booked for Friday 1-5PM. Hao will lead the lesson on GitHub. 

### Social media coverage
Possibility of advertising Carpentry events on the Marston Library social media accounts. To be discussed further.

### Additional items
* Website prototype will be discussed at the next meeting.
* Potentially, we can also discuss creating social media accounts for the UF Carpentries.
* Renewal of Board roles to be discussed at the next meeting. Will be effective in early summer (June). 
* Meeting for collaborative project on impact of workshops on education and career trajectories is tomorrow. Meeting notes will be made available.
* Next Board meeting in 2 weeks (last of the semester).  